Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I am Estes Kefolver.
I'm speaking to you from the NATO Parliamentary Conference in Paris France.
This is a meeting of the delegates selected by the Congresses and
the Parliament of the 15 NATO countries.
I accepted appointment as a member of the United States delegation because I
believe this meeting is of vital importance to our own safety at home and through
the NATO organization and they are I offer to have solidarity among the
nations of the North Atlantic, Western Europe and of the United States.
As we have met here, two Sputniks have been constantly encircling the globe
which reminds us of the scientific contest that we are engaged in today with
the Communist World and of the necessity of the people who believe in freedom, democracy,
decency, joining together as closely as possible.
Furthermore, in December just three weeks from now, the NATO Council, the heads of
states will meet here in the same building in Paris France.
And we feel that the suggestions and the work of the parliamentarians will be
helpful in paving the way for them.
I'm very proud to have with me today a very distinguished delegate, a member of
parliament from the United Kingdom, Mr. Jeffery, Jeffery Diffrater.
Mr. Diffrater's, let me say, is one of the outstanding and great men in the
parliament of our friend and our great friend and L.I.
Great Britain.
One of these days Mr. Diffrater's will probably be the secretary of air or the
secretary of defense, he is a leading member of parliament.
Mr. Diffrater's and I have had a pleasure of serving together on the so-called
political committee of the NATO Parliamentary Association.
His position is that of repertoire.
Now that is a word that's not function is not used.
We don't know much about it in the United States, but it means that he is the
chief man on the committee that he prepares the report and he prepared an excellent
political report that he gets the consensus of opinion about the resolutions and
the proposals to be made that he then grabs the proposals and he takes the lead
and has done it splendidly when they proposals are the resolutions come before the general session
of the NATO Parliamentary Conference.
And it's been very remarkable that all of our resolutions were accepted unanimously
and that's due to great extent to the fine draftsmanship and explanations
and to the standing and influence of my friend here, Mr. Diffrater's.
Certainly, I'm happy to have you on this program, Jeffrey.
Thank you very much, Sherwin.
Let me ask, are you...
Ben to the United States a great deal and yes, I have.
I've actually been in 47 out of the 48 states.
Well, then I know if you've been in 47 out of the 48, you must have been through the
great parliamentary state of Tennessee.
I have.
I wouldn't have died coming this program if I'd been there.
That's the one I'd missed.
And when was it you were there, Jeffrey in Tennessee?
Well, in Tennessee, that was 1935.
It must have been a very, very young man at that time.
Well, I was studying at Yale at the time and so I had a look at the south.
Well, I went to school at Yale and I'm not saying I'm much of a study, but...
And I thank you, also married a very lovely American girl.
I did, sir.
So we have a lot in common and we certainly are happy to have Mr. Fredas as our guest today.
Will you tell us what you think about the work of the conference and the importance of the conference, Jeffrey?
Well, one of the most important features was the fact that Senator Keifer was elected chairman of the political committee,
the committee he's referred to.
You see, before you go off...
Yeah, I wanted to just tell the friends in Tennessee that I didn't put you up to...
I know that, but you...
Rather, build me up a little bit by saying I was the most important man in the committee.
I just wanted to make it...
Senator Keifer was elected chairman by the 15 countries and it's true, I was rapporteur.
But that meant to see that as rapporteur this committee, I had to work very first to with the chairman, so I've seen a good deal of you I have,
I've read it during the last few days.
I think the most important point that we've done is to...
One of the most important things we've decided was to accept the resolution looking right ahead to the conference,
governmental conference, to study the Atlantic community and what it really was based on.
Well, Jeffrey, in that connection we have our political committee reported two resolutions.
First was to have this NATO parliamentary association be the nucleus around which a great citizens congress would be held in 1959,
the 10th anniversary of the NATO treaty, the North Atlantic treaty.
This would be in the nature of a hate conference, I believe.
You tell us how you envisioned it.
Yeah, it's a great conference.
In 1959 being the anniversary of 10th anniversary, we'd have a...
get together of all people representing institutions, organizations, and so on, who are interested in bringing the countries around the Atlantic closer together.
And they would have a discuss it.
Ten years ago there was a similar conference in Europe and it had a great...
that had a great results in making European nations realize how much they had in common.
And that's very important.
I believe the hate conference in 1948, which Mr. Churchill and the great minister of distinguished Europeans,
were present and spoke, resulted in the trustworthy creation of the Council of Europe and many other very worthwhile things
that have been done to bring the European community together.
Yes, it did. And that Council of Europe has provided twice a year the opportunity for members of parliament
to different countries in Europe to meet and discuss common problems.
They don't, they can't take any executive action, but they can add different points of view.
And that's a enormous importance.
Yes, it is.
And I think we also envision this hate conference on the 10th anniversary of the North Atlantic treaty
to be a time for people back home to talk about and think about and study NATO problems,
the problems of the Atlantic community.
Because we realize that NATO will only be as strong and as effective as it has backing from the people.
And this will be a time of mobilization of that public backing.
The other part of this very important resolution is something that I've been working on.
For a long, long time in the Congress of the United States, or similar to it.
And that is to set up a conference or a commission, the delegates of which would be selected by the respective 15 governments of NATO,
to seriously study and to recommend ways and means of implementing and the NATO idea of bringing about better cooperation, unity,
among the nations of the North Atlantic.
I'm very hopeful at the meeting here in December that President Eisenhower and the other heads of state
may implement this resolution.
What do you think about this general idea?
I think it's a statement.
I think the two of them are fitting very well.
One is the big Congress and this other one.
I believe that the government's meeting next month, when everyone is well aware of the importance of NATO and this alliance,
that they will go forward and set up such a conference.
It was seem to me that in a three-day meeting such as this will be three weeks from now with heads of government here,
that they can only agree upon general principles that the implementation that details will have to be worked out by commission
or conference and this recommendation, I hope, will fit what they may do at that time.
And I know that there's no harm at least from talking things over.
Jeffrey, we had one estimate and the conference, an unfortunate one, growing out of the decision of the United Kingdom and the United States to send arms to the nation of Tunisia.
Will you tell us what happened here next?
Well, we're in France and you only have to be here to realize how extremely touchy the French are about anything that appears to be helping the nationalists in Algeria.
And of course, this has been construed in the way that the legs that armed foot go from Tunisia into Algeria.
And of course, the emotions are very charged off for all the French-Hair people, fighting where they are and being killed out.
And one manifestation of it was that the French, the irrigation here, all the French members of Parliament, as a protest against the action of the two governments, the British and the American, left the conference, walked right out.
It's my opinion to the silly thing to do because you've gained nothing by walking out, but just not there to put your point of view.
Yes, well, I certainly agree that walking out doesn't do any good. And as you say, there can be more effective if they stay in the meeting and present their point of view.
And I think it's fair to say that there's a great deal of sympathy with the French position.
I can certainly understand how they feel about it.
I believe that one thing that was not done in this connection, and I think this was a mistake not to have done it, was that the members of NATO, the NATO Ministerial Council, and Mr. Paul Enres, Bob, the Secretary General of NATO, was not informed.
There was no consultation between the members, so that this is one of those things that disrupted our unity, and it should have been discussed all the way around the NATO Ministerial Group before any action was taken because France is a great and precious friend of the United States and the United Kingdom.
We don't want anything to happen that's going to permanently disrupt Sharia or cause a disunity with France. We certainly hope they will come back in the conference.
And I hope that in the future that our State Department may handle matters differently. I doubt very much the wisdom of what they did, but certainly the way they did it was bad.
By the way, will you tell us some of the other outstanding achievements of this conference?
On that very point, of course, our committee offered a resolution, which was accepted, due to the unanimous status of the parliament, just this morning, on this very matter.
That is to say the importance, stressing the importance of consultation between the nations.
And then, well, the scientific point, I think that's an important one.
Yes, but why don't you say a word about the scientific?
Well, it's just that we've all, we've accepted the resolution of the big deal of pooling of scientific and technical manpower among the NATO countries.
The general principle is that it's up to us to implement it.
That was really an implementation of what President Eisenhower and Prime Minister Macmillan agreed upon in Washington sometime back.
And that report incident was presented by Senator Henry Jackson from the State of Washington, who was a great friend of us in Tennessee.
Well, Jeffrey, this is about all the time we have. We want to extend you a welcome to come down to our state.
We hope you will come down and see the Tennessee Valley Authority again, like you.
And we'll be very happy to see you and it's been a great pleasure to be on this program.
Thanks very much.
That's all.